when we want to buy shares,
bonds or any other
financial instrument to compose our
investment portfolio we can
rely on a broker, real-life Brokers have
now almost completely become
extinct, in fact today when we talk about
Brokers we are referring almost
exclusively to online platforms
trading the broker basically provides
customers with access to the financial markets
by purchasing and selling various assets
from currencies to cryptocurrencies
to real estate in general In exchange for the
payment of a commission different
types of Brokers online Brokers are of
three types banking SIM companies
real estate brokerage and
foreign intermediaries, banks usually
have higher commissions but
are generally considered more solid.
The platforms often have
convenient offers but you need to pay attention to
those that encourage trading and taking
risks.
Platforms managed by SIMs are less widespread but
usually  they have a more limited offer of markets and
instruments compared to
banks. What and how do we want to
invest in? When we choose the broker, we
must first of all be sure that the
investments we want to make are
possible with that platform.
In fact, each broker offers access to only
some  stock exchanges and a limited range of
instruments, for example, if we
also want to invest in cryptocurrencies
we must be sure that our
Broker allows us to carry out these
operations, however, it must be clarified that
not all platforms allow you to
truly invest in the underlying asset,
many actually allow you to invest in CFDs
from  English Contract for difference the
cfd is an operation in which the two parties
exchange money on the basis of the
change in value of the
underlying asset between the moment in which
the operation is opened and the moment
in which it is closed
investors can therefore benefit
advantage from the rise or fall in the
price of the underlying but in some cases
they bet directly against the
broker from the point of view of
tax management. There are then two types of brokers
with an administered regime and a
declarative regime. In the first case the bank or
the broker act as substitutes for
tax i.e. they themselves
automatically withhold the taxes
or 26% on the Plus values ​​by paying
the amount directly to the state.
This is the type of account most
suitable for a novice investor
because all the bureaucratic part is
managed by others, the declarative regime
instead  it is usually applied to
investors who open an account
abroad in this case it is
the investor who is responsible for paying
taxes at the end of the year when he fills out the
tax return by entering the
income received from
trading activity and paying the related taxes  Don't
worry about the taxes to be paid in the
world of investments, we will
still make a dedicated video. The
platforms, once upon a time, Brokers were
natural persons who in some cases
also offered financial advice.
In the current world, Broker
refers only to the platforms that
allow us to access the markets.
often online trading platforms in
most cases not having
an expert human to advise us it is
important to use them when you already have
a certain level of
economic-financial knowledge. The platforms
also offer various functions
not only the trading of securities but
also the possibility of  set up
Packs, i.e. accumulation plans that
we talked about on the channel. But how
can I trust first of all? It is necessary to
verify that the broker is registered
and authorized with a
regulatory authority which in the Italian case is
the Consob national commission for
companies and the stock exchange the  Consob gives the
Broker a license that allows it to
operate in Italy, therefore the country in which it
offers its services. The objective is
to provide maximum protection of money
and data on the Consob website.
We can then check whether the
identified broker is included in the Blacklist or not.
of the authority, a further
element to have maximum
protection is that the broker is based in
Italy. Instead, there are a
series of signals that can help
identify an unreliable broker and
a possible scam, for example
when it is difficult to identify the
reference company when
very high returns are promised or
when the registered office of the company is indicated
in one of the countries known as
tax havens the costs another
important evaluation to make are the costs each
Broker applies commissions fees in
English which are of  done the way
some Brokers like
Bank platforms
generally have very
high commissions compared to companies that
deal only with the onl platform and
offer advantageous Fs to obtain new
customers even some platforms
like Robin Hood not accessible in
Italy for years  they have not applied
commissions the commissions can
be of different types in the case of the Fi
purchase sale you pay a percentage
on the value of the transaction or a
fixed fee for example €1 or 0.5%
for each purchase some Brokers
can also apply a fee
custody or maintenance fee
or costs for holding and
managing our shares which may
be charged every three months or
once a year plus there are Brokers
who may charge a
collection fee each time you receive a
dividend  that is, a profit,
finally, the costs of the assets
in which one invests must be considered, which are
independent of the Broker. Some international stock exchanges,
for example, apply
stock exchange commissions. However, if we invest
outside the Euro area
we would have to carry out a currency exchange
which could mean  Even a loss is
important to evaluate the commissions carefully
based on how much money we have to
invest. A
fixed commission might be better than a
percentage one. If we know we are doing few or
many transactions and if we know which
instruments we want to buy, we can
see which broker will have the
highest commissions.  low conclusions for us, every
investor, based on their own
investment needs and desires, can
choose the most suitable broker for themselves, however, it is
important to know how to choose, the
main requirement is that they have a
license to operate from Consob
and that they do not enter the Blacklist
of  authority We must also learn to
grasp the warning signs that should
immediately make us wary. For example, when
very high returns are promised or
when it is difficult to identify the
reference company, a broker should not be
chosen based on costs but this is one of the
aspects  to consider
carefully, transparency on costs and
commissions represents one of the
reliability factors the choice can
also be made based on one's
convenience. If the broker acts as a tax withholding agent
this allows a series of
non-trivial tax simplifications for
the user.  The user does not have to do anything
in the tax return because it
is done automatically by the Broker. If you
liked this video, subscribe to the
investiamo channel by activating the
notification bell and follow us on
Instagram. In the description you will also find the
links for the Newsletter and promo until next time
[  Music]
videos